CSS Trivia

What is the Box Model?
Box that wraps around every single html element
Includes Margin, Border, Padding, and Content
Box-sizing: border-box = width and height is = to the content + the padding + the border
Content-box = just the content in the middle (see inspect and see box)
What is specificity?
Specificity is a weight given to a style to determine if it should be applied or not
Id > class > regular div
If you have two ids/classes/divs that are the same but have different stylings the one that comes after will have higher specificity
!important = the highest specificity. 
How to center a div?
Display flex, align-items: center, justify-content: center
Position: absolute, top: 50%, left: 50%, transform: translate(-50%, -50%)
Position: relative is the parent that position absolute references
Display: flex on the parent and margin auto on the child
Display: grid, justify-content: center, align-items: center on the parent
What’s the difference between ‘div’ and ‘section’?
Divs are just used to group elements together, doesn’t have a specific meaning
Sections are used to group elements together that are related to each other
Sections are typically structured with headings then paragraph text, imgs, etc
What’s the difference between block, inline and inline-block
#1 Block
Starts on a new line and takes up the whole width e.g <p> elements
#2 - Inline
Starts on the same line and can’t set the width and height e.g <span> element
#3 - Inline - block
Starts on the same line, you’re allowed to set the width and height
Difference between position relative, absolute, fixed, sticky and static?
Static elements are positioned by the normal flow the page 
Relative: respects the flow, but you can use top, bottom, right, left, and such
Absolute: doesn’t affect the positioning of anything else on the page and is affected by t,b, l ,r and such. 
Fixed: stays the same, its relative to the screen 
Sticky: based on the users scroll position
What is the difference between visibility:hidden and display:none?
Visibility:hidden keeps the div in the DOM, but keeps it hidden
Display:none removes it from the DOM
How do you build a triangle in CSS?
You set a div’s width and height to 0, border 100px solid transparent and border-(any other them T,B,R,L) then border-top 0
What are pseudo elements in CSS?
Used to give element special effects
::after
::before
:hover
 What are Data Attributes?
Are used to store data in HTML

